In today's media, much of what's presented as fact is often colored by emotion and personal opinion.
Jehovah's Witnesses, however, remain committed to defending God's word the Bible as the standard for truth.
As Jesus said at John 17-17, your word is truth.
The wide-ranging subject matter contained in the publications of Jehovah's Witnesses is painstakingly researched by their writing research department.
Their research methods are modeled after that of Bible historians such as Luke and Jeremiah,
reliance on reputable first-hand sources.
We're not looking just for someone's opinions or what someone believes about a topic.
If the material is socially or politically biased, for example, we can't rely on it. We look for objective material.
We cover everything from historical, scientific, geographical, flora, fauna, space.
So before the script is even written, we'll provide a research package and we'll follow the project to final delivery,
to make sure that everything that is said, everything that is shown, is solidly based in fact and it's well researched.
There's a lot more research than what the viewer or the reader will ever see.
Jehovah, one page article on the other, you end up with like 12 references to back up every statement that's made.
It seems very simple, the height of Mont Blanc.
And with the height of Mont Blanc, we found out number one was 4807 meter.
Then we found another source, 4810.
Let's check a third one, 4808. So what is now real?
In that case, we had to consult the French National Institute of Geography and Forestry Information.
One of our main research tools is our own library system.
We have about 65,000 books and other research materials.
If we're researching something about ancient history or archaeology, we may consult a specialized encyclopedia,
like an encyclopedia of archaeological discoveries, for example.
Museum websites usually have pictures of what they have in the museum and we can find these visuals and then send those off to production teams as well and say this is a good example of a first century lamp.
Things that you think are true because they are commonly known may not actually be totally accurate.
So the research work we're doing, sometimes it takes a lot of time, a lot of effort.
Sometimes we don't find what we're expecting to find, but it's very gratifying because we're helping produce accurate information that our readers can rely on.
Reliable information will help us make good informed decisions.
Anyone who reads our journal, who sees our videos, can be confident, well, this was thoroughly researched. These are facts, this is the truth.
So when you consider the printed publications of Jehovah's Witnesses or peruse the JW.org website, you can be confident that the material is carefully researched and accurate.
Why? Because Jehovah's Witnesses are a people who love and respect the truth.